!!!! IMPORTANT !!!! FOR BETTER SECURITY MAKE SURE THAT YOU ENABLE THE REGULAR USER ONLY FOR SSH AND IT DOESNT HAVE ANY ROOT PRIVILAGES. AFTER YOU SSH THEN YOU CAN SWITCH TO THE ROOT USER ( WE WILL BE USING THE ROOT ) AND EVERY SERVICE YOU INSTALL WILL BE ONLY FOR THE ROOT AND NOT FOR ANY OTHER USER ( IF YOU DONT USE SUDO IT WILL ONLY BE INSTALLED ON  THE USER YOU ARE USING. WE WILL BE USING THE ROOT FOR BETTER SECURITY ). SO IN TOTAL WE WILL HAVE 2 USERS ( REGULAR FOR SSH , SFTP USER ) AND THE ROOT .


SFTP

. Create an SFTP-only User

2. sudo adduser <sftpuser>
3. sudo passwd <sftpuser>

replace < > with the name of the user for 2. and < > with the password of the user for 3. 

. Restrict SSH to SFTP Only

4. sudo mkdir /mnt/<foldername>

replace < > with your folder name 

5. sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config

 5.1 find " Subsystem sftp /usr/lib/openssh/sftp-server " and change it to " Subsystem sftp /bin/false " if you want to disable sftp access to the default user ( not the sftp user) but allow shell access to the default user


5.2 At the end of the file, add:

Match User <sftpuser>
    ForceCommand internal-sftp   #force sftp only to the sftp user ( not shell )
    PasswordAuthentication yes
    ChrootDirectory /mnt/<foldername>
    PermitTunnel no
    AllowAgentForwarding no
    AllowTcpForwarding no
    X11Forwarding no

 replace the first <sftpuser> with the name of the user for 2. <foldername> with the name that you gave to step 4.

. The home directory must be owned by root and not writable by the SFTP user:
 
6. sudo mkdir -p /mnt/<foldername>/<name>

replace <foldername> with the name that you gave in step 4. and <name> with whatever you want

7. sudo chown root:root /mnt/<foldername>

 replace <foldername> with the name that you gave in step 4.
 
8. sudo chmod 755 /mnt/<foldername>

replace <foldername> with the name that you gave in step 4.

9. sudo chown <sftpuser>:<sftpuser> /mnt/<foldername>/<name> 

replace <sftpuser> with the name of the user for 2. , <foldername> with the name that you gave in step 4. and and <name> with the name that you gave in step 6.

. Restart SSH

10. sudo systemctl restart ssh

. Mount external drive to server

Once you connect the external drive ( better format it to exFAT ) to the server you have to mount it to /mnt/<foldername>/<name> ( step 6. )

11. lsblk 
12. sudo mount /dev/< partition of the external drive that you want to mount and not the whole external drive  > /mnt/<foldername>/<name>

.  Mount Automatically on Boot

13. sudo blkid
14. sudo nano /etc/fstab
Add a line like:
UUID=<from step 13.> /mnt/<foldername>/<name>  auto  defaults  0  2

.  Test SFTP ( the password will be the same as step 3. )

15. sftp <sftpuser>@<your-server-ip>

             or
  Download filezilla and test.


