Docker ( Both Docker Engine and Docker Compose are needed ) 

a ) Docker Engine 

 Set up and install Docker Engine from Docker apt repository.

1. sudo apt-get update
2. sudo apt-get install ca-certificates curl
3. sudo install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings
4. sudo curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc
5. sudo chmod a+r /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc
6. echo \
  "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
  $(. /etc/os-release && echo "${UBUNTU_CODENAME:-$VERSION_CODENAME}") stable" | \
  sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
7.sudo apt-get update

. Install the Docker packages.

8. sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin

. Verify that the installation is successful by running the hello-world image:

9. a) sudo docker run hello-world  b) sudo systemctl enable --now docker  

b) Docker Compose

10. mkdir -p "$HOME/.docker/cli-plugins" && \
11. curl -sL "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/latest/download/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o "$HOME/.docker/cli-plugins/docker-compose" && \
12. chmod +x $HOME/.docker/cli-plugins/docker-compose

OK , now you have Docker Engine and Docker Compose installed. If you want to manage and have control of your container ports e.g if you installed emby via docker ( we did not do that ) that runs on port
8096 or any other service via docker, you can configure Docker to use your host firewall (e.g., ufw) instead of Docker default iptables rules. We will disable only the docker iptables rules and not the entire iptables service, so you can still use iptables for other purposes.

1. Create or edit the Docker daemon configuration file:
  sudo nano /etc/docker/daemon.json

2. Add the following content:
  {
    "iptables": false
  }

3. Restart Docker to apply the changes:

  sudo systemctl restart docker

Now, Docker will not modify iptables rules, and you can manage container ports using ufw or your preferred firewall.If you have any containers retart them.

IMPORTANT !!! : after this make sure that both commands return nothing : 1 ) sudo iptables -S | grep DOCKER and 2) sudo iptables -t nat -S | grep DOCKER 

If they do return something, you have to flush the rules and remove them. ( There are many ways to do that but for each system is different )









